Introduction: 
Currently, in late 2021, we are still in the middle of a worldwide pandemic with over 280 million Covid-19 infections and over 5 million deaths worldwide according to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Realtime Dashboard. Malaysia is also one of the countries heavily affected with over 2 million people infected. Governments from countries all across the world including Malaysia had issued a nationwide lockdown to slow the spread of the virus. Many problems followed suit as the lockdown was issued. One of them is that some Malaysian people are still going out and are being seen by the police almost every day. We will solve this problem by taking the decisive steps involved in the analytics lifecycle which are problem framing, data sensemaking, development of analytical models and interpretation & explanation of the results obtained. We will find out what exactly is the problem of the police finding people going out during MCO by problem framing, get to know why it's an issue through data sensemaking in which we study the underlying data related to the problem, develop analytical models as well as explaining them. (Gregory, 2018)

Understand: 
In order to attempt to solve a problem, we must know its nature, the people affected by the problem, the impact of the problem as well as the envisioning of the perfect solution to the problem. In this case, the problem is caused by the people violating the MCO. They are indirectly affecting their family members by supposedly taking the virus home when going out and eventually other people will follow suit as well. This problem has an impact on the aim of the government which is to slow the spread of the virus. Therefore, the people continuing to go out are jeopardizing the government's objective as the virus will continue to spread with fast pace. The perfect solution to this problem will be prevalent with the data records of people going out being investigated, decreasing every 2 days and becoming steady at one point which symbolizes a long-term solution due to continuous inspection involved.  

Observe:
When it comes to investigating the root causes of a problem, we can utilize the Ishikawa (fishbone) diagrams. We have the simplistic cause-and-effect diagram, 4S and 8P fishbones, Man machines materials fishbone and Design of experiments fishbone. There is also a tree-diagram method for root cause analysis. For this typical problem related to the MCO, it is preferable to use the cause-and-effect diagram to analyze the underlying root causes due to its simplicity as well as more freedom being given to the investigators to expand their thinking towards this problem and coming up with even further possible correlated root-causes and ideas. The ideas obtained will be in the format of being captured, grouped and then labelled accordingly. Furthermore, there will be a lot of reasons behind people having to go out during the MCO so having more freedom to think about possible root-causes is better. Tree-diagram method is also preferable due to its clarity and simplicity.  (Gregory, 2018)

Contextualize:
After analyzing the problem as well as finding out its correlated root-causes, a cause-effect relationship is established which leads us to coming up with a plausible hypothesis which is based on that relationship. Firstly, we need to generate hypotheses based on the potential causes found in the previous step and then form the hypotheses into statements that well describe the underlying cause-effect relationships. Furthermore, we also need to access the associated risks and rewards brought about by the establishment of applying the generated theories. Then, the problem will be formalized into a research question which fits into the FINER criteria which stands for feasible, interesting, novel, ethical and relevant. (Gregory, 2018) In the case scenario of people violating the MCO, one of the null hypotheses that can be generated is, "We believe that delivering groceries to local communities will result in less than 25% decrease in people going out every 2 days during the MCO." 

Describe:
As we have a sense of what the null hypothesis and the research question look like, we can look at which type of data to identify and prioritize and not take into account unnecessary data and wasting time on it. All that matters is to use the data that can help us reach a plausible solution in the end. During this stage of the lifecycle, we must firstly identify the kind of data that we need in order to solve the problem and ensuring that the data is actually involved with the problem. (Gregory, 2018) The data to be taken into account has to go accordingly with the assumptions that we have made based on the problem. For the case scenario of people going out during the MCO, we have to consider two types of data which are the new infected cases every 2 days and the amount of people found going out every 2 days. The data regarding to people going out every week can be collected with surveys or by looking at briefings of chief police officers from each district who report the amount of people found outside every week during the MCO.

Explore:
Now that we've made sense of what data to prioritize, we need to investigate where we can get those data from. The daily Covid-19 infections are announced every day at 5pm during the briefings by Dr. Noor Hisham Abdullah regarding to the current status of Covid-19 infections, recoveries and deaths. The data can also be found on the website called worldometers which states the overall total infections as well as the daily ones displayed with a bar chart. If we have all the data required, we need to profile and characterize the data. Profiling the data involves summarizing the data, getting to know the culture of the dataset by checking the validity of the data values and also its quality which will help us determine whether it is easy or not to evaluate the data itself. Once we have profiled the data, we can characterize it to understand the composition of the data that is, to see whether the variable(s) to be examined are continuous or categorical. (Gregory, 2018)

Explain, predict, optimize:
As we now have profiled and characterized the required data, we can delve deeper into the dataset by studying the composed variable(s) and figuring out how to best display it.  In the case of only one variable involved which in this problem is the number of people found outside every 2 days, should be displayed in a histogram distribution format if the variable has continuous data values. There are actually a lot more choices in terms of visualizations such as box-plots and dot-plots when it comes to continuous variables unlike categorical variables. It goes the same for statistical quantities to be calculated like mean, median, standard deviation as well. When dealing with two or more variables, we have to figure out which is the response variable (dependent variable) and which is the explanatory variable (independent variable). Based on whether the dependent and independent variables are continuous or categorical, there are 4 methods to make comparisons which is shown below. (Gregory, 2018) For example, in the case of people going out during MCO, we can compare the number of infections every 2 days (response variable) with the number of people found going out every 2 days (explanatory variable).

Storytelling:
The next phase is to share the same perspective by storytelling with the people involved in this problem which are the police and the general public. Firstly, we need to understand the audience itself. In this case, we need to know about what is needed by the people violating the MCO and also their motivations. Only through understanding the audience, will we be able to set up a design framework of the story itself. If the audience align with our perspective, the story to be told will be simplistic with only the vague necessities summarized accordingly. Then, we interact with the audience in order for us to know their knowledge before the story is being told so that we will have an idea of what we want the audience to know later on and also what to specify when the story is told. After that, we'll tell the story itself with the aid of visualizations along with interactive data like Johns Hopkins Dashboard to look at the daily infections in Malaysia. Lastly, we'll create urgency by ending the story with the severe consequences like increase in daily infections if they continue to go out.

Pilot:
The next phase is to test our null hypothesis stated above in "Contextualize" section by collectively sampling localities in each state of Malaysia where most people are going out. The alternative hypothesis is that, "We believe that delivering groceries to local communities will result in 25% decrease or more in people going out every 2 days during the MCO." Therefore, we expect a much more significant decrease which is more than 25%. Then, we will consult with local police officers to gather daily data of people seen going out and then summate the records for every 2 days. The initial record before the delivery service is introduced will be our control. Later on, we will initiate the delivery service and continue to collect and inspect the records for 12 days (6 records and 1 control). If there's a 25% decrease or more, the alternative hypothesis will be accepted and the null hypothesis will be rejected. Otherwise, it'll be the other way around. The major implication of the testing is that people across the country will worry if the testing results support the null hypothesis as it indirectly affects the number of Covid-19 infections per 2 days.

Operationalize:
In these crucial times, it is very essential for some governments (like US) to be observative of how other governments (like India) are handling the Covid-19 situation and keeping the rate of increase of number of infections low in their countries. The Indian police took violent measures in order to make people stay home and stop them from going out unnecessarily out of fear. It might seem harsh at first but sometimes these measures are required in order to save lives. The Malaysian Police should also be urged to do so along with applying stringent fines as well as making examples out of people who violates the MCO to better display the correlated consequences and continue to inspect the data related to the number of people going out every 2 days. The data records along with the coordination with the people and the police can help slow the spread of the virus. In the view of that fact, the data will justify the necessity of those measures by portraying the result regarding to decrease in the number of newly infected cases which is due to applying those measures on the people in order for them to stay home.

Conclusion:
In conclusion, the aim for our plan is to stop people from going out by establishing a grocery delivery service so that they will have everything they need. That way, social distancing will be maintained and therefore the spread of the virus will be slowed down.  In order to meet our aim, we'll need to continuously collect data records regarding to the number of people going out every 2 days and compare it with the number of newly infected cases. It is important for people to know that if they continue to go out the rate of infection will still increase and the MCO will have to be extended even further. To solve the problem faced by the police regarding to people still going out, it requires coordination between the police and the general public itself as the police have to take stringent measures to invoke fear for ignorant people as well the understanding of the general public of the negative impact they're going to make and also the fact that the more they go out the more they are likely to stay in as more new infected cases complements longer periods of MCO.

References:
Gregory, N. S. (2018). The Analytics Lifecycle Toolkit. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

